Grading System
##############

:date: 2013-03-01
:category: overview
:tags: standards, grading, overview

Grades in this class will be assigned based on a weighted average of your
performance in these categories:

* 10%	Final Exam
* 10%	Homework_
* 10%	Quizzes_	
* 20%	Participation
* 50%	Standards_ 

The final exam will be comprehensive.

Homework will always be due in class, neatly handwritten or typed, unless
otherwise specified in a particular assignment.  Late work will not be
accepted.

Quizzes will be at the *start* of each class session, and, if missed, they
cannot be made up.

The project will be a mathematical project of your choosing, presented in a 4-6
page paper that will be due near the end of the term.  Options for your project
topic will be discussed in the third week of the course.

Your participation grade will include your contributions to the class and to
your groups during class time.  

The largest portion of your grade will come from my assessment of your mastery
of specific skills and concepts called "Standards"  -- a long list of these
skills is at Standards_.  These skills will be assessed through the quizzes,
homework, final exam, project, and class exercises.  You will receive a score
in the range 0-4 on each standard (0 indicating that you did not attempt it, a
1 or 2 indicating that your skill is developing but not yet sufficient, and a 3
or 4 demonstrating satisfactory performance or mastery level performance.
Although you cannot make up a quiz, you may ask for a new assessment of the
standards for which you did not earn a 4.  The procedure for taking a new
assessment is to schedule an appointment during office hours or during class
work time within one week, during which you will convince me that you have
improved your understanding.  I will then create a new assessment of the same
skills. 


Your scores for the standards will be emailed to you on a weekly basis.  It
will be your responsibility to ensure/check the accuracy of all scores entered
in ActiveGrade and on Ulearn.

.. _Standards: ../standards.html
.. _Homework: ../category/homework.html
.. _Quizzes: ../category/quizzes.html
